#summary Frequently asked questions.
#labels Featured

*Q*: Can `BulletSharp` be used with <insert graphics framework library>?<br>
*A*: Probably yes. If the library has Vector, Matrix and Quaternion types, then the wrapper can be configured to use them. Otherwise, use the platform-agnostic Generic release, which has these classes.

*Q*: Where is the documentation?<br>
*A*: There is none. Since Bullet is not yet well documented, I won't be inventing anything myself either. Efforts are being made to remedy the issue, so hopefully inline documentation can be added to the wrapper once Bullet itself becomes reasonably well documented. See [http://bulletphysics.org/Bullet/phpBB3/viewtopic.php?f=9&t=2490 here] for more info.

Most of Bullet's demos have been converted to `BulletSharp` (see Downloads or trunk/demos on SVN). You may find these helpful.

*Q*: Is there a way to reduce the size of `BulletSharp`.dll?<br>
*A*: Yes. It is possible to remove parts of the library by disabling components you don't need. The appropriate flags can be found in `StdAfx.h`.


*Q*: How do I use `BulletSharp` with double precision?<br>
*A*: Compile Bullet with BT_USE_DOUBLE_PRECISION defined at the top of btScalar.h, then compile `BulletSharp`.<br>
<br>
Alternatively, if you use CMake to set double precision, then specify BT_USE_DOUBLE_PRECISION in `StdAfx.h`.

*Q*: When compiling, I get the error "cannot open file 'MSCOREE.lib'", what's wrong?<br>
*A*: Try to add one of these library paths in Visual Studio:

  * C:\Program Files\Microsoft SDKs\Windows\v6.0A\Lib
  * C:\Program Files\Microsoft SDKs\Windows\v7.0A\Lib
  * C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft SDKs\Windows\v6.0A\Lib
  * C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft SDKs\Windows\v7.0A\Lib

see Tools/Options/Projects and Solution/VC++ Directories/Library files.